README.md, before:

# FAQ

## Differences from original implementation
- In the original implementation, the order of keywords is not necessarily sorted descending
- In the original implementation, if a comma/period is encountered and a keyword has already been found,
all subsequent text is deleted (p. 2). In this implementation, sentences are split based on punctuation (—,.:;-),
and the sentence with the highest ranked keyword is chosen to be decomposed.
    - Main reasons:
        - The emphasis of the user's input may not necessarily be in the first section of the sentence
        - The section with the highest ranked keyword has a higher chance of having decomposition rules
        for that keyword, as it has a rank in the first place
- The ID of the last reassembly rule used for each decomposition rule is stored in the script file.
    - This way, Weizenbaum's concept of making the program feel less repetitive during a given session
    is extended to feel less repetitive throughout multiple sessions.
    - (note that the memory stack discussed in the paper does not persist through sessions, like the original;
    otherwise the program would "remember" your input (or another user's input) from past sessions,
    even though each session should only focus on the current user's present thoughts.)

## Why JSON and not CSV?
Each keyword has a **variable** amount of decomposition rules,
and each decomposition rule has a **variable** amount of reassembly rules.
I think JSON can store this information structure in a much more intuitive way.

# Future work
- Allow the user to edit the script during a session by typing "edit"
    - (see p. 7 of the paper)
- Could include a randomized delay for each response, so that it feels more human-like

# References
J. Weizenbaum, “ELIZA—a computer program for the study of natural language communication between man and machine,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 36–45, Jan. 1966. [Link](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/365153.365168)

Commit message:

Add general script and pre-decomposition substitutions

README.md, after:

# eliza.py

The `doctor` script has been filled according to the appendix in the original paper (p. 9)

# FAQ

## Differences from original implementation
- In the original implementation, the order of keywords is not necessarily sorted descending
- In the original implementation, if a comma/period is encountered and a keyword has already been found,
all subsequent text is deleted (p. 2). In this implementation, sentences are split based on punctuation (—,.:;-),
and the sentence with the highest ranked keyword is chosen to be decomposed.
    - Main reasons:
        - The emphasis of the user's input may not necessarily be in the first section of the sentence
        - The section with the highest ranked keyword has a higher chance of having decomposition rules
        for that keyword, as it has a rank in the first place
- The ID of the last reassembly rule used for each decomposition rule is stored in the script file.
    - This way, Weizenbaum's concept of making the program feel less repetitive during a given session
    is extended to feel less repetitive throughout multiple sessions.
    - (note that the memory stack discussed in the paper does not persist through sessions, like the original;
    otherwise the program would "remember" your input (or another user's input) from past sessions,
    even though each session should only focus on the current user's present thoughts.)
- Equivalent keys are not grouped within the same rules (p. 5) 
but are expanded so that each keyword has its own set of rules. 
This is done for clarity at the cost of negligible increased storage space of disk.
- `DLIST` in the original implementation is called `tag` in this implementation. It works the same way.

## Why JSON and not CSV?
Each keyword has a **variable** amount of decomposition rules,
and each decomposition rule has a **variable** amount of reassembly rules.
I think JSON can store this information structure in a much more intuitive way.

# Future work
- Allow the user to edit the script during a session by typing "edit"
    - (see p. 7 of the paper)
- Could include a randomized delay for each response, so that it feels more human-like

# References
J. Weizenbaum, “ELIZA—a computer program for the study of natural language communication between man and machine,” Communications of the ACM, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 36–45, Jan. 1966. [Link](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/365153.365168)
